# Transaction Managment
========================

# Process of combining all the operations into a single unit and executing on the rule "either all or none" it referred as "Transaction Managment".

### Case 1 : Fund Transfer
1.Debit funds from sender account (Update query with bal = bal-amt )
2.Credit funds into receiver account (update query with bal = bal + amt )

ALl operations should be performed as single unit.
if money from sender account is debited , and if the money does't reach to receiver's account then there may be achance of "Data inconsistancy problem".


### Case 2 : Movie Ticket Reservation

1.Verify the status
2.Reserve the ticket
3.Payment
4.Issue Ticket

ALl operations should be performed as single unit.
If some operations success and some operations fails then there may be "Data inconsistancy Problem".

# Transaction Properties
======================
Every Transaction should follow the following Four ACID properties

### a.A => Atomicity
    Either all operations should be done or none.

### b.C => Consistency
    It should ensure bringing the database from one state to another state.

### c.I => Isolation
    It ensures the transactions are isolated from other transactions.

### d.D =>Durability
    It means once the transaction is commited , the results are permanent even in the case of system restart , errors etc ....

## What are the types of Transactions available ?
    a.Local Transaction
    b.Global Transaction

### a.Local Transaction
    All operation in transaction are expected over the same database.
        eg:Funds transfer one account to another account where the bothe the accounts in the same bank.

### b.Global Transaction
    All operation in transaction are expected over the different database.
        eg:Funds transfer one account to another account where the accounts related to different bank.

# Note :
    JDBC supports only local transation
    If we want to global transaction then we need to go fro frameworks like Spring /Hibernate or EJB's.


# Process of transaction managment in JDBC
========================================

### 1.Disable the autoCommit nature in JDBC
    `connection.setAutoCommit(false);`

### 2.If all operations are completed means then we can commit the transatction using the following method
    `connection.commit();`

### 3.if any sql query fails,then we need to rollback the operations which are already completed using the following method 
    `connection.rollback();`


SavePoint(I)
================
within a transaction , if we want to rollback a particular group of operations based on some conditions then we need to use savepoint
    a.getting savepoint using the following method
        Savepoint sp = connection.setSavePoint();
    b.To perform rollback operation for a particular group of operation w.r.t savepoint then we need to use rollback.
        connection.rollback(sp)
    c.we can release the savepoint or delete the savepoint as shown below
        connection.releaseSavePoint(sp);

# case Study
==========
connection.setAutoCommit(false);
operation-1

operation-2

operation-3
SavePoint sp = connection.setSavePoint();
operation-4

operation-5

if(balance < 1000)
    connection.rollback(Sp)
else
    connection.releaseSavePoint(sp);

if(balance < 1000 then operation 4,5 will be rollbacked ,otherwise the operation )

eg:
    connection.setAutocommit(false);

    st.executeUpdate("insert into policitiens values("BJP","Modi")");
    
    st.executeUpdate("insert into policitiens values("TRS","KCR")");

    SavePoint sp = connection.setSavePoint();
      st.executeUpdate("insert into policitiens values("BJP","Siddu")");
     connection.rollback(sp);
        ;;;;;;
        ;;;;;;
        connection.releaseSavePoint(sp);
        ;;;;;;
        ;;;;;;
    connection.commit();


# Types of ResultSet
====================

Division - 1 (Based on the type of operation performed on ResultSEt)
    a.Read only ResultSet (static ResultSet)
    b.Updatable ResultSet (dynamic ResultSet)

Division - 2 (Based on the movement of cursors)
    a.Forword only ResultSet (non-scrollable)
    b.Scrolllable ResultSet ()
        a. Scroll Insensentive ResultSet
        b. Scroll Sensitive ResultSet


By default ResultSet Object is

a.static
b.Non-scrllable 

absolute() -> It works from the BFR or From ALR.
relative() -> It works w.r.t current position.

in both the methods posivite means move in forward direction 